README.md, before:

# Home Assistant Swipe Navigation

[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-41BDF5.svg)](https://github.com/hacs/integration) ![Total dowloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation/total?label=Total%20downloads) ![Downloads latest](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation/latest/total?sort=semver&label=Dowloads%20@latest)

Swipe through Home Assistant Dashboard views on mobile.

![preview](./example.gif)

This repository has been forked from [maykar/lovelace-swipe-navigation](https://github.com/maykar/lovelace-swipe-navigation) to continue the development since the original project is currently unmaintained.

💡 **Please uninstall [maykar/lovelace-swipe-navigation](https://github.com/maykar/lovelace-swipe-navigation) before proceeding, as it will conflict with this plugin.**

## Features:
* Animated swiping through Dashboard views
* Configure views to skip over
* Set the swipe length needed
* Option to disable browsers default swipe actions.
* Option to wrap from first view to last view and vice versa
* Supports RTL languages
* Correctly ignores swipes over certain elements (e.g. sliders or maps)

## Installation:
**Follow only one of these installation methods.**

<details>
  <summary><b>Installation and tracking with HACS:</b></summary>

1. In "Frontend" hit the plus button at the bottom right, search for "Home Assistant swipe navigation", and install.

2. Refresh the Dashboard page. You might need to clear the cache.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Manual installation:</b></summary>
  
1. Copy [swipe-navigation.js](https://github.com/zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation/releases/latest) from the latest release into `/www/hass-swipe-navigation/`

2. Add the resource in `ui-lovelace.yaml` or in Dashboard Resources.

```yaml
resources:
  # increase this version number at end of URL after each update
  - url: /local/hass-swipe-navigation/swipe-navigation.js?v=1.0.0
    type: module
```

3. Refresh the page, may need to clear cache.
</details>

## Config:
**If you just want to use the default config values you don't need to add a config at all.**

If you want to modify the configuration, place it in the root of your dashboard configuration.

**Config Options:**

| Name                |  Type   | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|---------------------|:-------:|:-------:|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| animate             | string  | `none`  | Swipe animations. Can be: `none`, `swipe`, `fade`, `flip`. The swipe animation should be considered experimental and depending on your setup may appear buggy.                                                                                                             |
| animate_duration    | number  |  `200`  | Swipe animation's duration in milliseconds.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| enable              | boolean | `true`  | Enable or disable the swipe navigation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| enable_mouse_swipe  | boolean | `false` | Enable or disable the swipe navigation via mouse.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| logger_level        | string  | `warn`  | Set logging level. Possible values are: `verbose`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| prevent_default     | boolean | `false` | Prevent the browsers default horizontal swipe actions. May require a browser refresh to take effect, if using an HA companion app this can be done by closing the app and reopening.                                                                                       |
| skip_hidden         | boolean | `true`  | Automatically skip hidden tabs.<br>⚠️ _Note that [subviews](https://www.home-assistant.io/dashboards/views/#subview) are implemented as hidden tabs (they can be seen in edit mode), therefore, by setting `skip_hidden` to `false` you can land in a subview by swiping._ |
| skip_tabs           | string  |         | A comma separated list of views to skip when swiping. e.g., `1,3,5`.<br>⚠️ _Note that tabs count starts at `0`, so the first is `0`, second is `1`, and so on._                                                                                                            |
| swipe_amount        | number  |  `15`   | Minimum percent of screen needed to be swiped in order to navigate.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| wrap                | boolean | `true`  | Wrap from first tab to last tab and vice versa.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |


**Example:**

Don't just copy the example, it won't fit your needs. Build your own using the config options above.

```yaml
swipe_nav:
  wrap: false
  enable_mouse_swipe: true
  animate: swipe
  skip_tabs: 5,6,7,8
  prevent_default: true
  swipe_amount: 30
  
views:
```

If you need help, Mark Watt has an excellent video covering the configuration [in this youtube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=03IPN9lBEfE&t=663s).

## Contributions
If you want to help, put a ⭐ to the repository and open issues or pull requests to contribute to the development.

### For developers
Have a look to the [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

## Thank you
Big thanks to:
* [@maykar](https://github.com/maykar) The original author of this project.

## Star History
[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation&Date)

Commit message:

docs: state one more time that the configuration is not mandatory

README.md, after:

# Home Assistant Swipe Navigation

[![hacs_badge](https://img.shields.io/badge/HACS-Default-41BDF5.svg)](https://github.com/hacs/integration) ![Total dowloads](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation/total?label=Total%20downloads) ![Downloads latest](https://img.shields.io/github/downloads/zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation/latest/total?sort=semver&label=Dowloads%20@latest)

Swipe through Home Assistant Dashboard views on mobile.

![preview](./example.gif)

This repository has been forked from [maykar/lovelace-swipe-navigation](https://github.com/maykar/lovelace-swipe-navigation) to continue the development since the original project is currently unmaintained.

💡 **Please uninstall [maykar/lovelace-swipe-navigation](https://github.com/maykar/lovelace-swipe-navigation) before proceeding, as it will conflict with this plugin.**

## Features:
* Animated swiping through Dashboard views
* Configure views to skip over
* Set the swipe length needed
* Option to disable browsers default swipe actions.
* Option to wrap from first view to last view and vice versa
* Supports RTL languages
* Correctly ignores swipes over certain elements (e.g. sliders or maps)

## Installation:
**Follow only one of these installation methods.**

<details>
  <summary><b>Installation and tracking with HACS:</b></summary>

1. In "Frontend" hit the plus button at the bottom right, search for "Home Assistant swipe navigation", and install.

2. Refresh the Dashboard page. You might need to clear the cache.
</details>

<details>
  <summary><b>Manual installation:</b></summary>
  
1. Copy [swipe-navigation.js](https://github.com/zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation/releases/latest) from the latest release into `/www/hass-swipe-navigation/`

2. Add the resource in `ui-lovelace.yaml` or in Dashboard Resources.

```yaml
resources:
  # increase this version number at end of URL after each update
  - url: /local/hass-swipe-navigation/swipe-navigation.js?v=1.0.0
    type: module
```

3. Refresh the page, may need to clear cache.
</details>

## Config:
**If you just want to use the default config values you don't need to add a config at all.**

If you want to modify the configuration, place it in the root of your dashboard configuration.

**Config Options:**

| Name                |  Type   | Default | Description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
|---------------------|:-------:|:-------:|----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| animate             | string  | `none`  | Swipe animations. Can be: `none`, `swipe`, `fade`, `flip`. The swipe animation should be considered experimental and depending on your setup may appear buggy.                                                                                                             |
| animate_duration    | number  |  `200`  | Swipe animation's duration in milliseconds.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                |
| enable              | boolean | `true`  | Enable or disable the swipe navigation.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                    |
| enable_mouse_swipe  | boolean | `false` | Enable or disable the swipe navigation via mouse.                                                                                                                                                                                                                          |
| logger_level        | string  | `warn`  | Set logging level. Possible values are: `verbose`, `debug`, `info`, `warn`, `error`.                                                                                                                                                                                       |
| prevent_default     | boolean | `false` | Prevent the browsers default horizontal swipe actions. May require a browser refresh to take effect, if using an HA companion app this can be done by closing the app and reopening.                                                                                       |
| skip_hidden         | boolean | `true`  | Automatically skip hidden tabs.<br>⚠️ _Note that [subviews](https://www.home-assistant.io/dashboards/views/#subview) are implemented as hidden tabs (they can be seen in edit mode), therefore, by setting `skip_hidden` to `false` you can land in a subview by swiping._ |
| skip_tabs           | string  |         | A comma separated list of views to skip when swiping. e.g., `1,3,5`.<br>⚠️ _Note that tabs count starts at `0`, so the first is `0`, second is `1`, and so on._                                                                                                            |
| swipe_amount        | number  |  `15`   | Minimum percent of screen needed to be swiped in order to navigate.                                                                                                                                                                                                        |
| wrap                | boolean | `true`  | Wrap from first tab to last tab and vice versa.                                                                                                                                                                                                                            |


**Example:**

Don't just copy the example, it won't fit your needs. Build your own using the config options above.

```yaml
# You don't necessarily need a configuration.
# Add only the options that differ from the default values.
swipe_nav:
  wrap: false
  enable_mouse_swipe: true
  animate: swipe
  skip_tabs: 5,6,7,8
  prevent_default: true
  swipe_amount: 30
  
views:
```

If you need help, Mark Watt has an excellent video covering the configuration [in this youtube video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=03IPN9lBEfE&t=663s).

## Contributions
If you want to help, put a ⭐ to the repository and open issues or pull requests to contribute to the development.

### For developers
Have a look to the [CONTRIBUTING](./CONTRIBUTING.md) file.

## Thank you
Big thanks to:
* [@maykar](https://github.com/maykar) The original author of this project.

## Star History
[![Star History Chart](https://api.star-history.com/svg?repos=zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation&type=Date)](https://star-history.com/#zanna-37/hass-swipe-navigation&Date)
